Hey everybody.
Welcome to part two of
the Stock Market Data Analysis Project.
In the previous section we just
went over basically our imports and
how we got the data frame set up.
And then left on a note
that in this video we're
going to be looking at
the moving averages.
And also some daylight return analysis.
So, once again you can
check out Investipedia for
more information on moving averages.
If you scroll down here they have a quick
like one minute video describing it.
Basically you're just taking
the average prices over a certain, or
all the prices over a certain
time period averaging them out.
And that can give you some
insight to trends in the data.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
do this for Apple stock.
So we have our AAPL data frame.
And actually before we do that,
we're gonna go ahead and
calculate several moving averages.
So I'm gonna say,
I'll make a list called ma_day.
And I'm gonna calculate three moving
averages, a 10 day moving average,
a 20 day moving average, and
a 50 day moving average.
Okay, let's go ahead and make that list.
All right?
And then for ma in ma_day.
Just gonna use the little for loop here.
I'm gonna set my column name.
Equal to MA for string days,
and then call the string
version of that number.
And I'll break this down
in just a second for you.
And then I'm gonna create a new column.
Based in that column name, And
I'm gonna use pandas rolling mean
to calculate the moving average.
AAPL and we'll get that from
the adjusted closing price column.
And we'll specify the number of days.
So I've run that.
Let me go ahead and
break it down what I just did.
So I had a list of MA days.
This just specifies the number of days for
that moving average.
So I'm gonna average over 10 days,
20 days, and 50 days.
Then in my for loop here what I'm doing is
I'm creating a column name, just a string,
that we'll be using later, and I've
labeled it as the MA, or moving average,
for, and then I'm calling the string of,
either 10, 20, or 50 days.
So I'll have three columns,
MA for 10, 20, and 50 days.
Then I'm creating a new column in
the Apple data frame based on that column
name, that string.
And I'm calling pandas so pd.rolling_mean
and that's gonna take two arguments.
It's going to take your column name.
In this case I'm using
the adjusted closing price column.
So AAPL Adj Close.
And it's also going to take the number of
days you want for that moving average.
So I'm making an additional three
columns for the 10, 20, and
50 moving day averages.
Great, so let's go ahead and
plot all the additional moving averages.
So what I'm going to do
here is call three columns.
Actually, four columns,
since we'll do the adjusted close force.
So I'll call the adjusted closing column.
So I'm gonna pass a list of columns Names,
and then, MA for, 10 days.
Next column is MA for 20 days.
Last column is MA for 50 days.
Great.
So I've passed a list of column
names into my data frame.
And then I'm just gonna call
the plot method for them.
I'll set subplots=false otherwise
it'll do a separate plot for
each of those columns, and
I want them all on the same figure.
And again I'll just set my figsize=(10,4).
Whoops, sorry, this is getting
a little over the cell range, but
hopefully you can see that.
So let's break this down one more time.
Passed a list of column names.
And I'm gonna plot them all,
sets subplots=false, so
I can get them all on one plot.
Let's go ahead and run the cell,
and there we have it.
So, we can see that the blue
is the adjusted closing price,
so what we calculated earlier, and
then we have our moving averages.
So you notice,
as you take your moving averages for
more days at a time,
you're gonna get a smoother line.
And it's not gonna be as reliant on the
daily fluctuations for its general trend.
So that's how you can get
the moving averages using pandas.
Again, there's tons of great information
on the actual financial information.
So, there's things known as crossover and
support, which can help you kind of
predict a future behavior or
understand the behavior of a stock.
And then, there's another great Why Use
Moving Averages article on Invest-pedia.
So you can get the moving average length,
you can look at trading strategies,
those crossovers, and there's a bunch
of disadvantages to the moving average,
it's not guaranteed to perfectly
predict the future, but it just
simplifies your price data by smoothing
it out and creating one flowing line.
So it can help make isolating
trends easier to see.
Okay, so now that we've done that,
let's go ahead and
take a quick look at daily returns.
So we've done some baseline analysis.
Lets go ahead and dive a little deeper.
We're now gonna analyze daily returns and
the risk of the stock.
So in order to do this we're gonna take
a closer look at the daily changes of
the stock and
not just it's absolute value.
Let's go ahead and use pandas to retrieve
the daily returns for the Apple stock.
So, what I'm gonna do here
is call AAPL Daily Return.
So that's my Daily Return column.
So I'm making a new column
called daily return and
I'm gonna set that equal to
the adjusted closing price column.
And then I'm gonna call
the percent change method on it.
Which is built into pandas.
So I'm creating a new column
called Daily Return, and
it's gonna be the percent change
of the adjusted closing column.
So that's gonna find the percent
change for each day, and
then I'm gonna plot it all.
So I will, now that the column is created
I'll say Daily Return column .plot.
I'll call my figsize,
again you don't have to do this.
I'll set my legend equal to true.
And I'm gonna set the line
style to be a hashed line.
You don't have to do this, it's up to you,
however you wanna, visualization is
up to you basically, and then I'll set
the marker equal to o, just a little dot.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
see how that worked out.
And there you go, so
now you have your daily returns.
And so basically what this
means is on any given day,
what was your percent
return on your money.
So if you bought stock at the beginning of
that day, did you get for instance here on
some date in May, did you get almost
an eight percent return on that stock?
Or did you lose on that stock?
I mean, we can use this.
We'll use histograms and
some more statistical techniques to
analyze risk on the stock
based on the behavior.
But what we've done here is charted
the daily return on average.
The daily return for each of the days
throughout the last year for
the Apple stock.
So if we want to look at the average
daily return, for the past year,
we can do that using a histogram.
And now we're gonna get into some
of seaborn's capabilities here.
So what I'm gonna do is call seaborn sns.,
and in this case I'm gonna use this plot.
And what this plot allows
us to do if you remember,
it allows us to place two
plots on top of each other.
So I'm gonna a histogram and a KDE plot.
Go ahead and check back on the data
visualization lectures if you're
a little hazy on that subject.
But continuing on, I'm going to call
the Daily Return column that we created.
I'll drop some na values,
in case there are any, so
it doesn't mess around with
seaborn's capabilities.
So go ahead and
drop na values from that column.
I'm gonna set my bins equal to 100,
since there's quite a few data points.
And I'll set the color to purple,
you can set it to whatever you want.
But I like the way that looks.
And there you have it.
So this is a histogram of your
daily returns for the past year.
So you can see it looks like it's
skewed a little more positive.
But we can do some more stat
analysis to check that out.
Another way you could have done this
is by just calling Daily, oops,
Daily Return|.hist.
And you could have specified
number of bins=100.
There you go.
So the top one is using seaborn.
And I like seaborn a little better,
you can also plot the KDE, and
you can do more with it,
but another quick and
easy way to do it is to just using pandas
built in histogram for that column.
Great, so both methods work and
we're going to continue on.
So now if we wanted to analyze the returns
of all the stocks on our list,
how could we do that?
We're going to go ahead and
build a new data frame with all of
the adjusted close columns for
each of those stock's data frames.
So I'm gonna create a data frame.
I'm gonna call it
closing_df = DataReader and
in this case I'm going to
pass my tech list here.
And then call Yahoo.
The start, the end, and
I'm just gonna have
it set equal to The closing price.
So, let's see if that works.
Okay, so,
let's break down what I just did here.
I created a new data
frame called closing_df.
And I used data reader just
to reiterate how we can read
stocks from the web using pandas.
I passed my tech list,
used Yahoo Finance, my start, my end date.
And I specified that I just wanted
the adjusted closing price columns.
Let's go ahead and see what that gave us,
by taking a quick look at that data frame.
So now we have our closing data frame.
It's just a bunch of columns
of the adjusted closing price.
You could have also built this off your
previous data frames that you made.
But this is just a quicker
way of doing it.
So now that we have all the closing
prices, let's go ahead and
get the daily return for all the stocks,
like we did for the Apple stocks.
So, I'll make a new data frame,
call tech_rets, rets standing for returns.
And I'm going to say it's equal
to that closing_dataframe df,
and pass the percent
change method on that.
And now let's go ahead and look at the,
Oops, that data frame there.
Cool.
You have some NaN values at the first one,
which kind of makes sense,
but the rest of them are filled out,
great.
So we can compare the daily
return percentage for
two stocks to see how they're correlated.
So we have the daily percentage returns.
So what we're gonna do is basically
what we did here with seaborn,
except I'm gonna compare it for
two stocks.
So to show you what I mean I'm
gonna compare Google to itself.
So I'm going to use joint plot for this.
Again, go ahead and
check out the data visualization lectures
if you want to refresh on how to do this.
But in this case I pass Both Google.
So Goog is the name of the column here.
From my tech return stock.
So I'm passing the Google column and
the Google column twice.
And I'll show you why
I do that in a second.
I'm gonna set the kind for
this joint plot to be scatter.
So remember, joint plots show two plots,
histograms, and whatever else you want,
either hex, or scatter,
or other methods as well.
And I'll set the color here to seagreen.
All right, let's see how this worked.
Whoops.
Jointplot, excuse me, not joinplot.
Great.
So let's go ahead and
see what we have here.
We have a perfectly linear relationship.
And that makes sense because
you're comparing Google to Google.
So your scatter plot should
have a Pearson r value of one.
Cuz that makes perfect sense right?
Any Google return on one day should equal
the Google return on that same day.
So you have this perfectly
linear correlation.
So we can see if two stocks are perfectly
and positively correlated with each other,
you get this positive linear
relationship between its daily returns.
Okay, so now what we're gonna do
is compare two different stocks.
And this is were the interesting part
begins, cuz you're trying to see if there
are any relationships between tech stocks,
which there may or may not be.
So I'm basically repeating this.
But now I'm gonna pass the Google and
the Microsoft columns using
my tech_rets data frame.
And again I'll call the kind scatter.
And this time the color
was defaulted as blue.
And now you kind of see a correlation, not
too sure if it's actually there or not.
So your Pearson r value,
this number right here, 0.41, it's
officially known as the Pearson
product-moment correlation coefficient.
So, let's go ahead and
go back to the IPython notebook.
And scrolling down here,
we've done all this already.
But, so the Pearson r value,
this is officially known as the Pearson
product-moment correlation coefficient.
It can give you a sense of how
correlated daily percentage returns are,
in this case.
Or any two data sets, but in this case,
we're looking at daily percentage returns.
So you can find more about it
at the Wikipedia page for it.
But for
a quick intuitive sense you can check out,
if you want to just check out
what it looks like visually,
these are various Pearson product-moment
correlation coefficient values.
But you can see here basically
a value of 1 means you're
perfectly positively correlated,
as we saw with Google.
And as you go down a little lower,
you're less correlated so 0.4 range
kinda looks like this on a scatter plot.
And you could see that as well
with the Microsoft and Google.
So they're about 0.4.
Kinda correlated, not super,
super strong though.
Depends what environment you're in,
as far as what's a strong correlation or
what's a poor correlation.
But seaborn and pandas make it really
easy to repeat this comparison analysis,
the one we did here with Google and
Microsoft.
For every possible combination of stocks
in our technology stock ticker list.
And we can use SNS.peerplot to
automatically create this plot.
So what we're gonna do is
create this plot right here.
Okay.
So let's go ahead and
hop back and do that.
So I'm actually gonna
cut this video here and
in the next video we'll dive
deeper into the pair plots.
I recommend before we dive into
the pair plots, go ahead and just read
through the complete IPython notebook,
and check out the pair plots here.
And then in the next video, we'll go
over how we actually construct those.
Okay, thanks, and I'll see you there.